= Cells3 - Cells port for Rails 3.0

Just as Rails 3.0 current Cells version is under heavy development so use it only if you're curious about progress.

== Setup with Rails 3.0pre

Go to link:http://github.com/mlomnicki/rails3_setup and follow the instructions.

== What will be done?

* Build Cells on top of AbstractController.
    Thanks that adding features like helpers, callbacks, caching will be as simple as including a module.

* Make cells strongly configurable
    So you can use only these features you really need letting cells be as lightweight as possible.

* Agnosticism - bring it from Rails 3.0 core
    Ie. you don't have to use ERB as template engine. Just choose your favourite.

* Introduce new render API[link:http://rubyforge.org/pipermail/cells-talk/2009-November/000155.html]
    render :cell, :state, :view, :collection     

* Code cleanup 
    Use ready rails modules to not reinvent the wheel  

* Render partials without wild hacks
    Cells 2.3 messes up in ActionView::Base to render partial.

* Backward compatibility
    Try save as much as possible compatibility with Cells 2.3.

* Performance
    Try to improve (good anyway) performance. Provide appropriate tests.

== What is done?

* Support for filters
* Rails 3.0 generators
* Cell::Base inherits from AbstractController. Unneeded methods removed from Cell::Base
* Don't need to mess up in ActionView::Base to render partial
* Rendering done via AbstractController::Rendering
* Helpers available via AbstractController::Helpers
* Views inheritance is done without need to catch exceptions
* Introduced Cell::Initializer. Choose which features you would like to use.

== What is broken?

* RequestForgeryProtection (but is it really needed here?)
* Backward compatitbility: 
  * parent controller accessible as #parent_controller, not #controller as always
  * returning string from cell state doesn't render it. Need explicity render :text => 'foobar'

== Motivation

Few talks with Nick Sutterer at RuPy 2009 and in some Polish pubs ;)

== Old README

Available in README (without rdoc extension)

